README.adoc, before:

= JAX-RS Test Showcase
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:figure-caption!:

image:https://github.com/bmarwell/jaxrs-test-showcase/actions/workflows/maven-ci.yaml/badge.svg[alt="Maven CI",link="https://github.com/bmarwell/jaxrs-test-showcase/actions/workflows/maven-ci.yaml"]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/maintaied%20with-renovate-blue?logo=renovatebot[alt="renovate",link="https://lift.sonatype.com/results/github.com/bmarwell/jaxrs-test-showcase"]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg[Apache License v2.0,124,20,link=https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0]

JAX-RS is a popular JavaEE standard to create RESTful endpoints in Java easily.
However, it is not always clear for new learners how to test those endpoints properly.

toc::[]

== Project setup

=== JSON-P, JSON-B and JAX-RS implementations

As JAX-RS is only a standard and is usually used in conjunction with JSON, there are unsurprisingly multiple implementations for those standards available.

.JAX-RS implementations
|===
|Vendor |Library Name |License |Maven Profile

|Apache Foundation
|Apache CXF
|Apache License 2.0
m|jaxrs-cxf

|Eclipse Foundation
|Eclipse Jersey (reference implementation)
|Eclipse Public License 2.0
m|jaxrs-jersey

|JBoss by RedHat
|JBoss restEasy
|Apache License 2.0
m|jaxrs-resteasy
|===

You can also switch the https://javaee.github.io/jsonb-spec/[JSON-B] and JSON-P implementations.
However, both of them can only be switched at the same time.

.JSON implementations
|===
|Vendor |Library Name |License |Maven Profile

|Apache Foundation
|Apache Johnzon
|Apache License 2.0
m|json-johnzon

|Eclipse Foundation
|Eclipse Yasson (reference implementation)
|Eclipse Public License 2.0
m|json-yasson

|===

By default, the profiles `jaxrs-cxf` and `json-yasson` are active.

=== Web-API and Web-Impl projects

First we need an endpoint to test.
For this reason, there are the modules `web/rest-api` and `web/rest-impl`.
Please note that it is often not required to have a separate api project.
This is YAGNI (you ain't gonna need it) in most cases.
However, separating the API from the implementation allows you (or others) to re-use
the jar file from the API project for the https://cxf.apache.org/docs/jax-rs-client-api.html#JAXRSClientAPI-Proxy-basedAPI[Proxy-based API].

=== Test projects

<TBD>

Commit message:

[DOCS] update README.adoc, no profiles.

README.adoc, after:

= JAX-RS Test Showcase
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:figure-caption!:

image:https://github.com/bmarwell/jaxrs-test-showcase/actions/workflows/maven-ci.yaml/badge.svg[alt="Maven CI",link="https://github.com/bmarwell/jaxrs-test-showcase/actions/workflows/maven-ci.yaml"]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/maintaied%20with-renovate-blue?logo=renovatebot[alt="renovate",link="https://lift.sonatype.com/results/github.com/bmarwell/jaxrs-test-showcase"]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg[Apache License v2.0,124,20,link=https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0]

JAX-RS is a popular JavaEE standard to create RESTful endpoints in Java easily.
However, it is not always clear for new learners how to test those endpoints properly.

toc::[]

== Project setup

=== JSON-P, JSON-B and JAX-RS implementations

As JAX-RS is only a standard and is usually used in conjunction with JSON, there are unsurprisingly multiple implementations for those standards available.

.JAX-RS implementations
|===
|Vendor |Library Name |License |Maven Profile

|Apache Foundation
|Apache CXF
|Apache License 2.0
m|jaxrs-cxf

|Eclipse Foundation
|Eclipse Jersey (reference implementation)
|Eclipse Public License 2.0
m|jaxrs-jersey

|JBoss by RedHat
|JBoss restEasy
|Apache License 2.0
m|jaxrs-resteasy
|===

You can also switch the https://javaee.github.io/jsonb-spec/[JSON-B] and JSON-P implementations.
However, both of them can only be switched at the same time.

.JSON implementations
|===
|Vendor |Library Name |License |Maven Profile

|Apache Foundation
|Apache Johnzon
|Apache License 2.0
m|json-johnzon

|Eclipse Foundation
|Eclipse Yasson (reference implementation)
|Eclipse Public License 2.0
m|json-yasson

|===

Where useful, tests are duplicated to be run on all combinations of implementations.

=== Web-API and Web-Impl projects

First we need an endpoint to test.
For this reason, there are the modules `web/rest-api` and `web/rest-impl`.
Please note that it is often not required to have a separate api project.
This is YAGNI (you ain't gonna need it) in most cases.
However, separating the API from the implementation allows you (or others) to re-use
the jar file from the API project for the https://cxf.apache.org/docs/jax-rs-client-api.html#JAXRSClientAPI-Proxy-basedAPI[Proxy-based API].

=== Test projects

<TBD>
